hello and welcome to another walkthrough for computer architecture for everybody so now what
we're going to do is we're going to do the single instruction CPU and so before we walk through the
counter circuit and the counter basically takes an adder and a register and takes the outputs of the
register one of the inputs of the adder and then hardcodes the other one to one so it's like an
increment instruction okay so it's incrementing whatever was in the register and then we have a
clock and once the clock starts it starts doing its increment thing so you can see it's running low
to high low to high and then it every on every clock pulse the registers goes up by one and the
speed of our clock is one second and again what we did is we made a simple wristwatch but this is
like a wristwatch this is not a programmable CPU so what i talked about in lecture is i talked about
the simplest possible two instruction CPU so we need something where it does something different
based on input from the outside world what did happen there instruction did i type it wrong
yeah okay so here we have an instruction this is the the single instruction computer i'm gonna
let's add another output here so we can watch the clock going high and low just so that you can see
that clock going high and low so the clock is high and so it's copied this in so it's exactly like
the counter except it has some decode logic we think of this in a cpu as decode logic where
we have an instruction and an instruction can be either a zero or a one and when the instruction is
a zero we are clearing the register so let's go ahead and start the clock and so now the register
is zero and so the instruction is zero so the way it works is the output of the adder is in effect
blocked because we're taking the output of an adder and running it through three and gates and
then the input to the register is all zeros when the instruction is zero that's the reset case and
as soon as we set the instruction to one then it becomes an increment instruction and so you can
now see the thing we saw before except the and gates the decode logic is seeing an instruction
that is increment and it's now passing every second it's passing through the data from the
output and now we're doing just the increment but it's incrementing but only when the instruction
is one so that's like one instruction one instruction one instruction one instruction
and now oh now your instruction are a reset and so no matter what the value was as the clock continues
to click it's running reset instructions which is setting the register to zero and again all it's
really doing is every time the clock ticks it's copying from the inputs into the register but
because the and gates are suppressing the output of the adder in a sense they're blocking it and
so let's go ahead and send some increment instructions increment increment increment
increment increment and so you'll see that it copies it and away it goes and so that is our
little two instruction central processing unit with a one second one hertz clock it's adding one
hey so let's just do something fun let's just add two let's uh let's tell it to stop first oh wait
wait oh crap i didn't mean to delete it ah hey wait i can reload it again there we go let's
reload the instruction circuit i deleted it that's a good reason to save and reload it see how easy
that was so let's go ahead and i'll have the clock be off so what i'm going to do is i'm going to
delete this input and i'm going to put the input here on to the two so now we're going to be adding
two it's going to be like two four six eight kind of a thing now we have to put a one here so that's
like b1 is zero b2 is one and b3 is zero so that's adding two so you'll notice we're not even starting
yet because the register has the value of zero inside of it and it's sending that to the adder
and the adder is adding zero on the a's plus two on the b's and so it's got zero plus two so now
we're going to have a counter that counts two four six eight which is too high and overflows and then
two four zero two four six overflow i think is what we're going to get so let's turn this baby on
so the clock is starting but we still are sending the clear instruction so the two is being ignored
because the and gates the decode logic in this little baby cpu is blocking it so let's go ahead
and turn it into the increment and we'll start seeing this thing go up by two zero two clock
clock four so we're making a we're making an adder that counts by twos six the next thing will be
overflow and it's a zero again right and so it goes zero two four six overflow zero two four six
overflow okay so i hope that you found this a little thing interesting you don't have to do it
you could you can build it it's not that hard to build this one's a little hard because you got all
these little wires you got to get them to look pretty but you can always just load one up and
then play with it yourself okay cheers see you on the net